---
title: Localization
---

The site is fully localizable. Localization files are not shipped with
the code distribution, but are available in separate GitHub
repositories. The proper repos can be cloned and kept up-to-date using
the `l10n_update` management command:

``` console
$ ./manage.py l10n_update
```

If you don't already have a `data/www-l10n` directory, this command
will clone the git repo containing the .ftl translation files (either
the dev or prod files depending on your `DEV` setting). If the folder is
already present, it will update the repository to the latest version.

# Fluent

Bedrock's Localization (l10n) system is based on [Project
Fluent](https://projectfluent.org/). This is a departure from a standard
Django project that relies on a gettext work flow of string extraction
from template and code files, in that it relies on developers directly
editing the default language (English in our case) Fluent files and
using the string IDs created there in their templates and views.

The default files for the Fluent system live in the `l10n` directory in
the root of the bedrock project. This directory houses directories for
each locale the developers directly implement (mostly simplified English
"en", and "en-US"). The simplified English files are the default
fallback for every string ID on the site and should be strings that are
plain and easy to understand English, as free from colloquialisms as
possible. The translators are able to easily understand the meaning of
the string, and can then add their own local flair to the ideas.

!!! note

    Much of this documentation also applies to the use of Fluent with Pocket
    templates, with the main differences being that:

    -   the English Pocket Fluent directory is called `l10n-pocket/`
    -   there are no activation-threshold checks for Pocket templates - we
        expect all strings to be translated in one go, because they are done
        via a vendor

## .ftl files

When adding translatable strings to the site you start by putting them
all into an .ftl file in the `l10n/en/` directory with a path that
matches or is somehow meaningful for the expected location of the
template or view in which they'll be used. For example, strings for the
`mozorg/mission.html` template would go into the
`l10n/en/mozorg/mission.ftl` file. Locales are activated for a
particular .ftl file, not template or URL, so you should use a unique
file for most URLs, unless they're meant to be translated and activated
for new locales simultaneously.

You can have shared .ftl files that you can load into any template
render, but only the first .ftl file in the list of the ones for a page
render will determine whether the page is active for a locale.

Activation of a locale happens automatically once certain rules are met.
A developer can mark some string IDs as being "Required", which means
that the file won't be activated for a locale until that locale has
translated all of those required strings. The other rule is a percentage
completion rule: a certain percentage (configurable) of the strings IDs
in the "en" file must be translated in the file for a locale before it
will be marked as active. We'll get into how exactly this works later.

### Translating with .ftl files

The [Fluent file syntax](https://projectfluent.org/fluent/guide/) is
well documented on the Fluent Project's site. We use "double hash" or
"group" comments to indicate strings required for activation. A group
comment only ends when another group comment starts however, so you
should either group your required strings at the bottom of a file, or
also have a "not required" group comment. Here's an example:

``` fluent
### File for example.html

## Required
example-page-title = The Page Title
# this is a note the applies only to example-page-desc
example-page-desc = This page is a test.

##
example-footer = This string isn't as important
```

Any group comment (a comment that starts with "##") that starts with
"Required" (case does not matter) will start a required strings block,
and any other group comment will end it.

Once you have your strings in your .ftl file you can place them in your
template. We'll use the above .ftl file for a simple Jinja template
example:

``` jinja
<!doctype html>
<html>
<head>
    <title>{{ ftl('example-page-title') }}</title>
</head>
<body>
    <h1>{{ ftl('example-page-title') }}</h1>
    <p>{{ ftl('example-page-desc') }}</p>
    <footer>
        <p>{{ ftl('example-footer') }}</p>
    </footer>
</body>
</html>
```

### FTL String IDs

Our convention for string ID creation is the following:

1.  String IDs should be all lower-case alphanumeric characters.
2.  Words should be separated with hyphens.
3.  IDs should be prefixed with the name of the template file (e.g.
    `firefox-new-skyline` for `firefox-new-skyline.html`)
4.  If you need to create a new string for the same place on a page and
    to transition to it as it is translated, you can add a version
    suffix to the string ID: e.g.
    `firefox-new-skyline-main-page-title-v2`.
5.  The ID should be as descriptive as possible to make sense to the
    developer, but could be anything as long as it adheres to the rules
    above.

### Using brand names

Common Mozilla brand names are stored in a global
[brands.ftl](https://github.com/mozilla/bedrock/blob/main/l10n/en/brands.ftl)
file, in the form of
[terms](https://projectfluent.org/fluent/guide/terms.html). Terms are
useful for keeping brand names separated from the rest of the
translations, so that they can be managed in a consistent way across all
translated files, and also updated easily in a global context. In
general the brand names in this file remain in English and should not be
translated, however locales still have the choice and control to make
adjustments should it suit their particular language.

Only our own brands should be managed this way, brands from other
companies should not. If you are concerned that the brand is a common
word and may be translated, leave a comment for the translators.

!!! note

    We are trying to phase out use of `{ -brand-name-firefox-browser }`
    please use `{ -brand-name-firefox } browser`.

``` fluent
-brand-name = Firefox

example-about = About { -brand-name }.
example-update-successful = { -brand-name } has been updated.
# "Safari" here refers to the competing web browser
example-compare = How does { -brand-name } compare to Safari?
```

!!! tip "Important"

    When adding a new term to `brands.ftl`, the new term should also be
    manually added to the
    [mozilla-l10n/www-l10n](https://github.com/mozilla-l10n/www-l10n) repo
    for *all locales*. The reason for this is that if a term does not exist
    for a particular locale, then it does not fall back to English like a
    regular string does. Instead, the term variable name is displayed on the
    page.

### Variables

Single hash comments are applied only to the string immediately
following them. They should be used to provide additional context for
the translators including:

1.  What the values of variables are.
2.  Context about where string appears on the page if it is not visible
    or references other elements on the page.
3.  Explanations of English idioms and jargon that may be confusing to
    non-native speakers.

``` fluent
# Variables:
#   $savings (string) - the percentage saved from the regular price, not including the % Examples: 50, 70
example-bundle-savings = Buy now for { $savings }% off.

# Context: Used as an accessible text alternative for an image
example-bookmark-manager-alt = The bookmark manager window in { -brand-name-firefox }.
# Context: This lists the various websites and magazines who have mentioned Firefox Relay.
# Example: "As seen in: FORBES magainze and LifeHacker"
example-social-proof = As seen in:

example-privacy-on-every = Want privacy on every device?
# "You got it" here is a casual answer to the previous question, "Want privacy on every device?"
example-you-got-it = You got it. Get { -brand-name-firefox } for mobile.
```

#### HTML with attributes

When passing HTML tags with attributes into strings for translation,
remove as much room for error as possible by putting all the attributes
and their values in a single variable. (This is most common with links
and their href attributes but we do occasionally pass classes with other
tags.)

``` fluent
# Variables:
#   $attrs (attrs) - link to https://www.mozilla.org/about/
example-created = { -brand-name-firefox } was created by <a {$attrs}>{ -brand-name-mozilla }</a>.

# Variables:
#   $class (string) - CSS class used to replace brand name with wordmark logo
example-firefox-relay = Add <span { $class }">{ -brand-name-firefox-relay }</span>
```

``` jinja
{% set created_attrs = 'href="%s" data-cta-type="link" data-cta-text="created by Mozilla"'|safe|format(url('mozorg.about.index')) %}
<p>{{ ftl('example-created', attrs=created_attrs) }}</p>

{{ ftl('example-firefox-relay', class_name='class="mzp-c-wordmark mzp-t-wordmark-md mzp-t-product-relay"') }}
```

### Obsolete strings

When new strings are added to a page sometimes they update or replace
old strings. Obsolete strings & IDs should be removed from ftl files
immediately if they are not being used as a fallback. If they are being
kept as a fallback they should be removed after 1-2 months.

#### Fallback

If you need to create a new string for the same place on a page and
would like to keep the old one as a fallback, you can add a version
suffix to the new string ID: e.g.
`firefox-new-skyline-main-page-title-v2`.

``` fluent
example-block-title-v2 = Security, reliability and speed — on every device, anywhere you go.
# Obsolete string
example-block-title = Security, reliability and speed — from name you can trust.
```

The `ftl` helper function has the ability to accept a fallback string ID
and is described in the next section.

#### Remove

If the new string is fundamentally different a new string ID should be
created and the old one deleted.

For example, if the page is going from talking about the Google
Translate extension to promoting our own Firefox Translate feature the
old strings are not appropriate fall backs.

The old strings and IDs should be deleted:

``` fluent
example-translate-title = The To Google Translate extension makes translating the page you’re on easier than ever.
example-translate-content = Google Translate, with over 100 languages* at the ready, is used by millions of people around the world.
```

The new strings should have different IDs and not be versioned:

``` fluent
example-translate-integrated-title = { -brand-name-firefox } now comes with an integrated translation tool.
example-translate-integrated-content =  Unlike some cloud-based alternatives, { -brand-name-firefox } translates text locally, so the content you’re translating doesn’t leave your machine.
```

The `ftl_has_messages` jinja helper would be useful here and is
described in the next section.

### The `ftl` helper function

The `ftl()` function takes a string ID and returns the string in the
current language, or simplified english if the string isn't translated.
If you'd like to use a different string ID in the case that the primary
one isn't translated you can specify that like this:

``` python
ftl('primary-string-id', fallback='fallback-string-id')
```

When a fallback is specified it will be used only if the primary isn't
translated in the current locale. English locales (e.g. en-US, en-GB)
will never use the fallback and will print the simplified english
version of the primary string if not overridden in the more specific
locale.

You can also pass in replacement variables into the `ftl()` function for
use with [fluent
variables](https://projectfluent.org/fluent/guide/variables.html). If
you had a variable in your fluent file like this:

``` fluent
welcome = Welcome, { $user }!
```

You could use that in a template like this:

``` jinja
<h2>{{ ftl('welcome', user='Dude') }}<h2>
```

For our purposes these are mostly useful for things that can change, but
which shouldn't involve retranslation of a string (e.g. URLs or email
addresses).

You may also request any other translation of the string (or the
original English string of course) regardless of the current locale.

``` jinja
<h2>{{ ftl('welcome', locale='en', user='Dude') }}<h2>
```

This helper is available in Jinja templates and Python code in views.
For use in a view you should always call it in the view itself:

``` python
# views.py
from lib.l10n_utils import render
from lib.l10n_utils.fluent import ftl

def about_view(request):
    ftl_files = 'mozorg/about'
    hello_string = ftl('about-hello', ftl_files=ftl_files)
    render(request, 'about.html', {'hello': hello_string}, ftl_files=ftl_files)
```

If you need to use this string in a view, but define it outside of the
view itself, you can use the `ftl_lazy` variant which will delay
evaluation until render time. This is mostly useful for defining
messages shared among several views in constants in a `views.py` or
`models.py` file.

Whether you use this function in a Python view or a Jinja template it
will always use the default list of Fluent files defined in the
`FLUENT_DEFAULT_FILES` setting. If you don't specify any additional
Fluent files via the `fluent_files` keyword argument, then only those
default files will be used.

### The `ftl_has_messages` helper function

Another useful template tool is the `ftl_has_messages()` function. You
pass it any number of string IDs and it will return `True` only if all
of those message IDs exist in the current translation. This is useful
when you want to add a new block of HTML to a page that is already
translated, but don't want it to appear untranslated on any page.

``` jinja
{% if ftl_has_messages('new-title', 'new-description') %}
  <h3>{{ ftl('new-title') }}</h3>
  <p>{{ ftl('new-description') }}</p>
{% else %}
  <h3>{{ ftl('title') }}</h3>
  <p>{{ ftl('description') }}</p>
{% endif %}
```

If you'd like to have it return true when any of the given message IDs
exist in the translation instead of requiring all of them, you can pass
the optional `require_all=False` parameter and it will do just that.

There is a version of this function for use in views called
`has_messages`. It works exactly the same way but is meant to be used in
the view Python code.

``` python
# views.py
from lib.l10n_utils import render
from lib.l10n_utils.fluent import ftl, has_messages

def about_view(request):
    ftl_files = 'mozorg/about'
    if has_messages('about-hello-v2', 'about-title-v2',
                    ftl_files=ftl_files):
        hello_string = ftl('about-hello-v2', ftl_files=ftl_files)
        title_string = ftl('about-title-v2', ftl_files=ftl_files)
    else:
        hello_string = ftl('about-hello', ftl_files=ftl_files)
        title_string = ftl('about-title', ftl_files=ftl_files)

    render(request, 'about.html', {'hello': hello_string, 'title': title_string}, ftl_files=ftl_files)
```

## Specifying Fluent files {#specifying_fluent_files}

You have to tell the system which Fluent files to use for a particular
template or view. This is done in either the `page()` helper in a
`urls.py` file, or in the call to `l10n_utils.render()` in a view.

### Using the `page()` function

If you just need to render a template, which is quite common for
bedrock, you will probably just add a line like the following to your
`urls.py` file:

``` python
urlpatterns = [
    page('about', 'about.html'),
    page('about/contact', 'about/contact.html'),
]
```

To tell this page to use the Fluent framework for l10n you just need to
tell it which file(s) to use:

``` python
urlpatterns = [
    page('about', 'about.html', ftl_files='mozorg/about'),
    page('about/contact', 'about/contact.html', ftl_files=['mozorg/about/contact', 'mozorg/about']),
]
```

The system uses the first (or only) file in the list to determine which
locales are active for that URL. You can pass a string or list of
strings to the `ftl_files` argument. The files you specify can include
the `.ftl` extension or not, and they will be combined with the list of
default files which contain strings for global elements like navigation
and footer. There will also be files for reusable widgets like the
newsletter form, but those should always come last in the list.

### Using the class-based view

Bedrock includes a generic class-based view (CBV) that sets up l10n for
you. If you need to do anything fancier than just render the page, then
you can use this:

``` python
from lib.l10n_utils import L10nTemplateView

class AboutView(L10nTemplateView):
    template_name = 'about.html'
    ftl_files = 'mozorg/about'
```

Using that CBV will do the right things for l10n, and then you can
override other useful methods (e.g. `get_context_data`) to do what you
need. Also, if you do need to do anything fancy with the context, and
you find that you need to dynamically set the fluent files list, you can
easily do so by setting `ftl_files` in the context instead of the class
attribute.

``` python
from lib.l10n_utils import L10nTemplateView

class AboutView(L10nTemplateView):
    template_name = 'about.html'

    def get_context_data(self, **kwargs):
        ctx = super().get_context_data(**kwargs)
        ftl_files = ['mozorg/about']
        if request.GET.get('fancy'):
            ftl_files.append('fancy')

        ctx['ftl_files'] = ftl_files
        return ctx
```

A common case is needing to use
FTL files when one template is used, but not with another. In this case you would
have some logic to decide which template to use in the
`get_template_names()` method. You can set the `ftl_files_map` class
variable to a dict containing a map of template names to the list of FTL
files for that template (or a single file name if that's all you need).

``` python
# views.py
from lib.l10n_utils import L10nTemplateView

# class-based view example
class AboutView(L10nTemplateView):
    ftl_files_map = {
        'about_es.html': ['about_es']
        'about_new.html': ['about']
    }

    def get_template_names(self):
        if self.request.locale.startswith('en'):
            template_name = 'about_new.html'
        elif self.request.locale.startswith('es'):
            template_name = 'about_es.html'
        else:
            # FTL system not used
            template_name = 'about.html'

        return [template_name]
```

If you need for your URL to use multiple Fluent files to determine the
full list of active locales, for example when you are redesigning a page
and have multiple templates in use for a single URL depending on locale,
you can use the [activation_files]{.title-ref} parameter. This should be
a list of FTL filenames that should all be used when determining the full list of
translations for the URL. Bedrock will gather the full list for each
file and combine them into a single list so that the footer language
switcher works properly.

Another common case is that you want to keep using an old template for
locales that haven't yet translated the strings for a new one. In that
case you can provide an `old_template_name` to the class and include
both that template and `template_name` in the `ftl_files_map`. Once you
do this the view will use the template in `template_name` only for
requests for an active locale for the FTL files you provided in the map.

``` python
from lib.l10n_utils import L10nTemplateView

class AboutView(L10nTemplateView):
    template_name = 'about_new.html'
    old_template_name = "about.html"
    ftl_files_map = {
        "about_new.html": ["about_new", "about_shared"],
        "about.html": ["about", "about_shared"],
    }
```

In this example when the `about_new` FTL file is active for a locale,
the `about_new.html` template will be rendered. Otherwise the
`about.html` template would be used.

### Using in a view function

Lastly there's the good old function views. These should use
`l10n_utils.render` directly to render the template with the context.
You can use the `ftl_files` argument with this function as well.

``` python
from lib.l10n_utils import render

def about_view(request):
    render(request, 'about.html', {'name': 'Duder'}, ftl_files='mozorg/about')
```

## Fluent File Configuration

In order for a Fluent file to be extracted through automation and sent
out for localization, it must first be configured to go through one or
more distinct pipelines. This is controlled via a set of configuration
files:

-   [Vendor](https://github.com/mozilla/bedrock/blob/main/l10n/configs/vendor.toml),
    locales translated by an agency, and paid for by Marketing (locales
    covered by staff are also included in this group).
-   [Pontoon](https://github.com/mozilla/bedrock/blob/main/l10n/configs/pontoon.toml),
    locales translated by Mozilla contributors.
-   [Special
    templates](https://github.com/mozilla/bedrock/blob/main/l10n/configs/special-templates.toml),
    for locales with dedicated templates that don't go through the
    localization process (not currently used).

Each configuration file consists of a pre-defined set of locales for
which each group is responsible for translating. The locales defined in
each file should not be changed without first consulting the with L10n
team, and such changes should not be a regular occurrence.

To establish a localization strategy for a Fluent file, it needs to be
included as a path in one or more configuration files. For example:

``` text
[[paths]]
    reference = "en/mozorg/mission.ftl"
    l10n = "{locale}/mozorg/mission.ftl"
```

You can read more about configuration files in the [L10n Project
Configuration](https://moz-l10n-config.readthedocs.io/) docs.

!!! tip "Important"

    Path definitions in Fluent configuration files are not source order
    dependent. A broad definition using a wild card can invalidate all
    previous path definitions for example. Paths should be defined carefully
    to avoid exposing .ftl files to unintended locales.

Using a combination of vendor and pontoon configuration offers a
flexible but specific set of options to choose from when it comes to
defining an l10n strategy for a page. The available choices are:

1.  Staff locales.
2.  Staff + select vendor locales.
3.  Staff + all vendor locales.
4.  Staff + vendor + pontoon.
5.  All pontoon locales (for non-marketing content only).

When choosing an option, it's important to consider that vendor locales
have a cost associated with them, and pontoon leans on the goodwill of
our volunteer community. Typically, only non-marketing content should go
through Pontoon for all locales. Everything that is marketing related
should feature one of the staff/vendor/pontoon configurations.

## Fluent File Activation

Fluent files are activated automatically when processed from the l10n
team's repo into our own based on a couple of rules.

1.  If a fluent file has a group of required strings, all of those
    strings must be present in the translation in order for it to be
    activated.
2.  A translation must contain a minimum percent of the string IDs from
    the English file to be activated.

If both of these conditions are met the locale is activated for that
particular Fluent file. Any view using that file as its primary (first
in the list) file will be available in that locale.

### Deactivation

If the automated system activates a locale but we for some reason need
to ensure that this page remains unavailable in that locale, we can add
this locale to a list of deactivated locales in the metadata file for
that FTL file. For example, say we needed to make sure that the
[mozorg/mission.ftl]{.title-ref} file remained inactive for German, even
though the translation is already done. We would add `de` to the
`inactive_locales` list in the `metadata/mozorg/mission.json` file:

``` json
{
  "active_locales": [
    "de",
    "fr",
    "en-GB",
    "en-US",
  ],
  "inactive_locales": [
    "de"
  ],
  "percent_required": 85
}
```

This would ensure that even though `de` appears in both lists, it will
remain deactivated on the site. We could just remove it from the active
list, but automation would keep attempting to add it back, so for now
this is the best solution we have, and is an indication of the full list
of locales that have satisfied the rules.

### Alternate Rules

It's also possible to change the percentage of string completion
required for activation on a per-file basis. In the same metadata file
as above, if a `percent_required` key exists in the JSON data (see
above) it will be used as the minimum percent of string completion
required for that file in order to activate new locales.

!!! note

    Once a locale is activated for a Fluent file it will **NOT** be
    automatically deactivated, even if the rules change. If you need to
    deactivate a locale you should follow the [Deactivation](#deactivation)
    instructions.

### Activation Status

You can determine and use the activation status of a Fluent file in a
view to make some decisions; what template to render for example. The
way you would do that is with the `ftl_file_is_active` function. For
example:

``` python
# views.py
from lib.l10n_utils import L10nTemplateView
from lib.l10n_utils.fluent import ftl_file_is_active

# class-based view example
class AboutView(L10nTemplateView):
    ftl_files_map = {
        'about.html': ['about']
        'about_new.html': ['about_new', 'about']
    }
    def get_template_names(self):
        if ftl_file_is_active('mozorg/about_new'):
            template_name = 'about_new.html'
        else:
            template_name = 'about.html'

        return [template_name]

# function view example
def about_view(request):
    if ftl_file_is_active('mozorg/about_new'):
        template = 'mozorg/about_new.html'
        ftl_files = ['mozorg/about_new', 'mozorg/about']
    else:
        template = 'about.html'
        ftl_files = ['mozorg/about']

    render(request, template, ftl_files=ftl_files)
```

### Active Locales

To see which locales are active for a particular .ftl file you can
either look in the metadata file for that .ftl file, which is the one
with the same path but in the `metadata` folder instead of a locale
folder in the www-l10n repository. Or if you'd like something a bit
nicer looking and more convenient there is the `active_locales`
management command:

``` bash
$ ./manage.py l10n_update
```

``` bash
$ ./manage.py active_locales mozorg/mission
```

``` bash
There are 91 active locales for mozorg/mission.ftl:
- af
- an
- ar
- ast
- az
- be
- bg
- bn
...
```

You get an alphabetically sorted list of all of the active locales for
that .ftl file. You should run `./manage.py l10n_update` as shown above
for the most accurate and up-to-date results.

## String extraction

The string extraction process for both new .ftl content and updates to
existing .ftl content is handled through automation. On each commit to
`main` a command is run that looks for changes to the `l10n/` and
`l10n-pocket/` directories. If a change is detected, it will copy those
files into a new branch in
[mozilla-l10n/www-l10n](https://github.com/mozilla-l10n/www-l10n) and
then a bot will open a pull request containing those changes. Once the
pull request has been reviewed and merged by the L10n team, everything
is done.

To view the state of the latest automated attempt to open an L10N PR,
see:

-   [Mozorg L10N PR
    action](https://github.com/mozilla/bedrock/actions/workflows/send_mozorg_fluent_strings_to_l10n_org.yml)
-   [Pocket L10N PR
    action](https://github.com/mozilla/bedrock/actions/workflows/send_pocket_fluent_strings_to_l10n_org.yml)

(We also just try to open L10N PRs every 3 hours, to catch any failed
jobs that are triggered by a commit to `main`)

## CSS

If a localized page needs some locale-specific style tweaks, you can add
the style rules to the page's stylesheet like this:

``` css
html[lang="it"] #features li {
  font-size: 20px;
}

html[dir="rtl"] #features {
  float: right;
}
```

If a locale needs site-wide style tweaks, font settings in particular,
you can add the rules to `/media/css/l10n/{{LANG}}/intl.css`. Pages on
Bedrock automatically includes the CSS in the base templates with the
[l10n_css]{.title-ref} helper function. The CSS may also be loaded
directly from other Mozilla sites with such a URL:
`//mozorg.cdn.mozilla.net/media/css/l10n/{{LANG}}/intl.css`.

*Open Sans*, the default font on mozilla.org, doesn't offer non-Latin
glyphs. `intl.css` can have `@font-face` rules to define locale-specific
fonts using custom font families as below:

-   *X-LocaleSpecific-Light*: Used in combination with *Open Sans
    Light*. The font can come in 2 weights: normal and optionally bold
-   *X-LocaleSpecific*: Used in combination with *Open Sans Regular*.
    The font can come in 2 weights: normal and optionally bold
-   *X-LocaleSpecific-Extrabold*: Used in combination with *Open Sans
    Extrabold*. The font weight is 800 only

Here's an example of `intl.css`:

``` css
@font-face {
  font-family: X-LocaleSpecific-Light;
  font-weight: normal;
  font-display: swap;
  src: local(mplus-2p-light), local(Meiryo);
}

@font-face {
  font-family: X-LocaleSpecific-Light;
  font-weight: bold;
  font-display: swap;
  src: local(mplus-2p-medium), local(Meiryo-Bold);
}

@font-face {
  font-family: X-LocaleSpecific;
  font-weight: normal;
  font-display: swap;
  src: local(mplus-2p-regular), local(Meiryo);
}

@font-face {
  font-family: X-LocaleSpecific;
  font-weight: bold;
  font-display: swap;
  src: local(mplus-2p-bold), local(Meiryo-Bold);
}

@font-face {
  font-family: X-LocaleSpecific-Extrabold;
  font-weight: 800;
  font-display: swap;
  src: local(mplus-2p-black), local(Meiryo-Bold);
}
```

Localizers can specify locale-specific fonts in one of the following
ways:

-   Choose best-looking fonts widely used on major platforms, and
    specify those with the `src: local(name)` syntax
-   Find a best-looking free Web font, add the font files to
    `/media/fonts/`, and specify those with the `src: url(path)` syntax
-   Create a custom Web font to complement missing glyphs in *Open
    Sans*, add the font files to `/media/fonts/l10n/`, and specify those
    with the `src: url(path)` syntax. [M+
    2c](http://mplus-fonts.osdn.jp/about-en.html) offers various
    international glyphs and looks similar to Open Sans, while [Noto
    Sans](https://www.google.com/get/noto/) is good for the bold and
    italic variants. You can create subsets of these alternative fonts
    in the WOFF and WOFF2 formats using a tool found on the Web. See
    [Bug 1360812](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1360812)
    for the Fulah (ff) locale's example

Developers should use the `.open-sans` mixin instead of
`font-family: 'Open Sans'` to specify the default font family in CSS.
This mixin has both *Open Sans* and *X-LocaleSpecific* so
locale-specific fonts, if defined, will be applied to localized pages.
The variant mixins, `.open-sans-light` and `.open-sans-extrabold`, are
also available.

# All

## Locale-specific Templates

While the `ftl_has_messages` template function is great in small doses,
it doesn't scale particularly well. A template filled with conditional
copy can be difficult to comprehend, particularly when the conditional
copy has associated CSS and/or JavaScript.

In instances where a large amount of a template's copy needs to be
changed, or when a template has messaging targeting one particular
locale, creating a locale-specific template may be a good choice.

Locale-specific templates function simply by naming convention. For
example, to create a version of `/firefox/new.html` specifically for the
`de` locale, you would create a new template named
`/firefox/new.de.html`. This template can either extend
`/firefox/new.html` and override only certain blocks, or be entirely
unique.

When a request is made for a particular page, bedrock's rendering
function automatically checks for a locale-specific template, and, if
one exists, will render it instead of the originally specified
(locale-agnostic) template.

!!! note

    Creating a locale-specific template for en-US was not possible when this
    feature was introduced, but it is now. So you can create your en-US-only
    template and the rest of the locales will continue to use the default.

## Specifying Active Locales in Views

Normally we rely on activation tags in our translation files (.lang
files) to determine in which languages a page will be available. This
will almost always be what we want for a page. But sometimes we need to
explicitly state the locales available for a page. The
[impressum]{.title-ref} page for example is only available in German and
the template itself has German hard-coded into it since we don't need
it to be translated into any other languages. In cases like these we can
send a list of locale codes with the template context and it will be the
final list. This can be accomplished in a few ways depending on how the
view is coded.

For a plain view function, you can simply pass a list of locale codes to
[l10n_utils.render]{.title-ref} in the context using the name
[active_locales]{.title-ref}. This will be the full list of available
translations. Use [add_active_locales]{.title-ref} if you want to add
languages to the existing list:

``` python
def french_and_german_only(request):
    return l10n_utils.render(request, 'home.html', {'active_locales': ['de', 'fr'])
```

If you don't need a custom view and are just using the
[page()]{.title-ref} helper function in your [urls.py]{.title-ref} file,
then you can similarly pass in a list:

``` python
page('about', 'about.html', active_locales=['en-US', 'es-ES']),
```

Or if your view is even more fancy and you're using a Class-Based-View
that inherits from [LangFilesMixin]{.title-ref} (which it must if you
want it to be translated) then you can specify the list as part of the
view Class definition:

``` python
class MyView(LangFilesMixin, View):
    active_locales = ['zh-CN', 'hi-IN']
```

Or in the [urls.py]{.title-ref} when using a CBV:

``` python
url(r'about/$', MyView.as_view(active_locales=['de', 'fr'])),
```

The main thing to keep in mind is that if you specify
[active_locales]{.title-ref} that will be the full list of localizations
available for that page. If you'd like to add to the existing list of
locales generated from the lang files then you can use the
[add_active_locales]{.title-ref} name in all of the same ways as
[active_locales]{.title-ref} above. It's a list of locale codes that
will be added to the list already available. This is useful in
situations where we would have needed the l10n team to create an empty
.lang file with an active tag in it because we have a
locale-specific-template with text in the language hard-coded into the
template and therefore do not otherwise need a .lang file.

# Adding new L10N integrations

Bedrock, as a platform, can operate in different modes, and it is
possible (necessary, even) to support multiple L10N pipelines, so that
each mode of operation can have its own distinct Fluent files and
translation strategy.

As of Summer 2022, there are two separate L10N integrations within
Bedrock:

-   Mozilla.org ("Mozorg mode")
-   Pocket Marketing Pages ("Pocket mode")

These integrations are similar in their approach, but not identical in
how they run. They use different translations strategies, which requires
slightly different data flows.

Moving L10N data (essentially Fluent `.ftl` files) happens via various
automation steps, which aren't captured here, as they are more about
infrastructure and operations. However, what follows outlines the steps
needed to add a new L10N integration (for "`newintegration`") to
Bedrock.

1.  **FILE SETUP (Bedrock developer)**

Add a directory for the source (`en`) Fluent strings that will need
translation.

!!! note

    For source Fluent files currently\...

    -   \...Mozorg uses `./l10n/`
    -   \...Pocket uses `./l10n-pocket/`

Add the following files:

``` bash
./l10n-newintegration/
./l10n-newintegration/en/  # This is where source Fluent templates go for 'newintegration'
./l10n-newintegration/en/configs/pontoon.toml  # If using community/Pontoon translations at all
./l10n-newintegration/en/configs/vendor.toml  # If using a paid-for translation service such as Smartling
./l10n-newintegration/en/configs/special-templates.toml   # Only needed to exclude certain files from all community AND vendor translation. e.g. we use staff translation only.

./l10n-newintegration/l10n-pontoon.toml  # If using community/Pontoon translations at all
./l10n-newintegration/l10n-vendor.toml  # If using a paid-for translation service such as Smartling

./data/l10n-newintegration-team/  # leave this empty - it will be populated via a git sync using data FROM the l10n team
```

For the exact content of each [.toml]{.title-ref} or [.json]{.title-ref}
file, see the examples in `./l10n/` and `./l10n-pocket/` for
inspiration - they're not too hard to work out. The `.toml` files
outside of `/en/` basically point to the ones in `/en/configs/` and are
a 'gateway' through which we spec which config files are relevant to
which translation stragegy (community or vendor - or neither if it's
staff-only translation).

2.  **REPO SETUP (Bedrock and/or L10N team admin)**

You will need to set up one or two new repos, to hold the translation
files as part of the pipeline.

i\. **A repo in where the files are sent to** in
`https://github.com/mozilla-l10n/` for the L10N team's automation to
pick up.

For example, Mozorg uses `github.com/mozilla-l10n/www-l10n/` and Pocket
uses `github.com/mozilla-l10n/www-pocket-l10n/`. Your new
`github.com/mozilla-l10n/www-newintegration-l10n/` repo will be needed
regardless of who does the actual translation work.

ii. **An optional repo where files are post-processed following
    translation**.

If relevant, this will live in `github.com/mozmeao/` - for example
`github.com/mozmeao/www-newintegration-l10n/`

!!! tip "Important"

    **If you are not using Pontoon/community translations, you do NOT need
    to create this repo.** Why? If the translations are done by the
    community (via Pontoon), there is a possibility that not enough of the
    strings will be translated in order to render the content in the
    relevant locale. We run a CI task to
    determine whether a locale has enough translated strings to be
    considered 'active'. At the moment, only Mozorg uses this pattern. The
    Pocket-mode translations do not have their activation measured because
    their translations come entirely from a vendor and we expect the Pocket
    strings to be 100% translated.

3.  **CI SETUP (Bedrock dev)**

Only relevant if using Pontoon community translations. Details of how
MozMarRobot is hooked are best gleaned from looking at
`https://gitlab.com/mozmeao/www-fluent-update`.

In short, once new translations land in the string-source repo (e.g.
`github.com/mozilla-l10n/www-newintegration-l10n`) they are cloned over
to the activation-check repo
`github.com/mozmeao/www-newintegration-l10n/` by CI and later pulled
into Bedrock from there.

4.  **CONFIGURE SETTINGS (Bedrock dev)**.

You'll also have to update settings so that when the site is in
'newintegration' mode, it knows which L10N-related local folders and
remote repos to use. Look in `settings/__init__.py` to see what we did
for Pocket mode.

You'll also have to set up new env vars to provide the new repo and
filepath settings' values, which will mean updating
`github.com/mozmeao/www-config/` and possibly getting new secrets
provisioned in Kubernetes if you need to use a separate auth token for
`github.com/mozilla-l10n/`. (You may not.)

Note that if you are *not* using community/Pontoon translations - and
therefore you don't need to use an intermediary repo to calculate
activation status - you can just use the
`mozilla-l10n/www-newintegration-l10n` repo for both outbound and
inbound translations - look at the Pocket Mode setting for an example of
this.

5.  **EXPAND L10N UPDATE SCRIPT (Bedrock dev)**.

**Uploading strings for translation**

Uploading `` `en ``-locale source strings from Bedrock to the
`github.com/mozilla-l10n/` repos is handled by
`bedrock/bin/open-ftl-pr.sh`. This file requires no specific code
changes to support a new integration as long as you have already set up
a `SITE_MODE` for 'newintegration'.

However, you **do** need to add a new entry to `bedrock/.gitlab-ci.yml`
-- copy the `update-l10n` step, in a similar way to how it's been
duplicated for `update-pocket-l10n`.

**Downloading translated strings**

Update the configuration dict at the top of
`bedrock/lib/l10n_utils/management/commands/l10n_update.py` so that when
that management command is run, it will pull down the appropriate
translations for "newintegration".

Tip: to test drive things, you can fork the real repos and test against
your forks by specifying them via local env vars.

6.  **VENDOR SETUP (L10N Team)**

The vendor (e.g. Smartling) will need to add the new string-source repo
(`github.com/mozilla-l10n/www-newintegration-l10n`) to its
configuration. Once this is done new translations from the vendor will
be added to that repo, and synced down to Bedrock. This step is out of
our hands, but the vendor's technical contact should be able to make it
happen.

7.  **PONTOON SETUP (L10N Team)**

Details to come for setting up community translations using Pontoon.
(Contributions about this aspect are welcome!)

*[FTL]: Fluent Translation List
*[CI]: Continuous Integration
